NAME:
Classic Chicken Provencal
CUISINE:
French
DESCRIPTION:
Chicken Provencal is a regional French recipe that can take on many forms. There is no one absolute recipe for Chicken Provencal, but there are some pieces that are integral to the success of the dish. The cut of chicken you use is important, as it is with any braised dish, but also the dish should include some lemons, briny ingredients like olives and/or capers, ripe tomatoes, and lots of herbs. Both dried and fresh herbs can work.

The skillet will have a wonderful sauce that created from the wine, chicken fat, and vegetables, so serving the dish with a crusty baguette or over rice is the only way to go.
TAGS:
MEAT, COMFORT FOOD, CHEAP DINNER, FRENCH
INGREDIENTS:
7-8 - bone-in, skin-on chicken thighs
1 tsp kosher salt
1/2 tsp black pepper
2 tbs olive oil
1 tbs Herbes de Provence
4 large shallots, quartered
6 cloves garlic, peeled
1 pint cherry tomatoes
1/2 cup green olives
1 - lemon, cut into eighths
1 tablespoon capers
4 sprigs thyme
1 cup white wine
- - Rice or baguette
RECIPE:
1. Preheat Oven to 400°F
2. Season the chicken thighs well on all side with salt and pepper.

In a large (at least 12-inch) oven-safe skillet or Dutch oven over medium-low heat, add olive oil. Add chicken thighs into the skillet, skin side down. Cook, untouched, for 8-10 minutes so skin can start to render and brown slowly.
3. When chicken thighs have browned on one side, flip the chicken thighs. It can be helpful to use a thin spatula to make sure to get the skin loose from the skillet. Sprinkle chicken thighs with Herbs de Provence, shallots, garlic, cherry tomatoes, green olives, lemon wedges, capers, and thyme sprigs. Add the white wine to the skillet, around the chicken pieces.
4. Place skillet in the oven and braise, uncovered, for one hour. The chicken is done when opaque all the way through and the thighs register at least 165°F in the middle.
5. Remove and let cool for five minutes and then serve over rice or with a crusty baguette.
