NAME:
Mushroom Polenta
CUISINE:
Italian
DESCRIPTION:
When I’m craving a substantial and comforting meal, but I don’t want to spend all day braising a tough cut of meat, I make this meatless Mushroom Polenta. 

It comes together quickly thanks to the quick-cooking instant polenta—no need to stand over the stove stirring it for 30 minutes. Most brands of instant polenta cook in under 5 minutes and they’re still as rich and creamy. 

The polenta is seasoned with butter, Parmesan cheese, and a little parsley. It’s topped with sautéed white button and cremini mushrooms, garlic, and onions in a light herby sauce punched up with a dash of red wine vinegar.
TAGS:
VEGETARIAN, COMFORT, YUMMY, MUSHROOMS
INGREDIENTS:
1/4 cup water
1-1/2 pounds mushrooms (mix of cremini and white button)
3 tablespoons olive oil, divided
1-1/2 teaspoons kosher salt, divided, plus more to taste
1/8 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper, plus more to taste
5 cloves garlic, thinly sliced
1 - medium yellow onion, thinly sliced
2 teaspoons minced fresh oregano leaves
1 teaspoon minced fresh thyme leaves 
1 Pinch crushed red pepper flakes, plus more to taste
4-1/2 cups vegetable broth, divided
1 tablespoon tomato paste
2 teaspoons red wine vinegar
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, divided 
1 cup instant polenta
1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese, plus more for serving
1/4 cup chopped fresh Italian parsley leaves and tender stems, divided
RECIPE:
1. Gently wipe the mushroom caps clean with a dry paper towel. Trim the bottom of stems and cut the mushrooms into quarters if large and halves if small. The cut pieces should be about the same size.
2. Heat a large skillet over high heat until it’s hot. It may take about 1 minute. Carefully add the 1/4 cup water and mushrooms. Cook, stirring until all the water evaporates, about 12 minutes. The mushrooms will release more water, but they will become smooth and shiny. The timing depends on how much moisture the mushrooms have—they’re ready when the skillet is dry.

Add 1 tablespoon of oil and stir. Allow the mushrooms to sit undisturbed to brown for a minute or so, then stir again. Lower the heat if the mushrooms are darkening too quickly.

Continue cooking the mushrooms until they are browned all over and crisp-tender, 4 to 5 minutes. Stir in 1/4 teaspoon of salt and black pepper. Transfer the mushrooms into a medium bowl.
3. Heat the same large skillet used for the mushrooms over medium heat. Add the remaining 2 tablespoons oil, 1/4 teaspoon salt, garlic, onion, oregano, thyme, and crushed red pepper flakes. Cook stirring until the onions are tender and limp, about 10 minutes. 

Add a drizzle of oil if the vegetables look too dry. Lower the heat if the garlic is browning too quickly. Add the tomato paste and smoosh with the back of the wooden spoon into the pan to cook out some of the raw flavor, about 30 seconds. The paste might stick to your spoon but just keep swirling it around the pan. 

Stir in 1/2 cup vegetable broth. Return the mushrooms to the skillet and stir briefly to re-warm. Turn off the heat and stir in the vinegar and 1 tablespoon butter. Taste and season with more salt, black pepper, and red pepper flakes if you’d like. Set it aside while you cook the polenta.
4. In a medium saucepan over high heat, bring 4 cups of vegetable broth and 1 teaspoon salt to a boil. Slowly add the polenta while whisking. Turn the heat down to maintain a gentle simmer.

Once all the polenta has been added, switch to a wooden spoon and cook, stirring until the polenta is thick and bubbly, about 3 minutes. It will pull away from the sides of the saucepan. 

Taste it. It should be creamy, not grainy. 
5. Stir in the Parmesan, 2 tablespoons parsley, and the remaining 1 tablespoon butter. Turn off the heat.
6. Divide the polenta among shallow serving bowls. Spoon the mushrooms on top. Sprinkle with the remaining 2 tablespoons parsley and more Parmesan.
